ML Logistic Regression Project – Report
📌 1. Introduction

The main objective of this project is to build a Machine Learning classification model using different algorithms and compare their performance.
The algorithms used in this project are:

Logistic Regression

Random Forest Classifier

Support Vector Machine (SVM)

The goal is to train the models using a dataset, evaluate their accuracy, and find which algorithm performs best.

📌 2. Dataset Description

The dataset contains multiple features (independent variables) and one target column (output variable).
It is used to classify data into two classes (Binary Classification).

Example fields include:

Feature 1

Feature 2

Feature 3

…

Target (0 or 1)

The dataset was loaded and processed using Pandas in the Jupyter Notebook.

📌 3. Data Preprocessing

Before training, the dataset was preprocessed by performing the following steps:

Handling missing values

Splitting data into training and testing sets (80% train, 20% test)

Scaling features (if required)

Separating input (X) and output (y)

This ensures the model performs accurately and consistently.

📌 4. Algorithms Used
🔹 4.1 Logistic Regression

Logistic Regression is widely used for binary classification problems.

It uses a sigmoid function to predict probabilities.

Easy to implement and interpretable.

🔹 4.2 Random Forest Classifier

Random Forest is an ensemble learning method.

Combines multiple decision trees.

Works well for complex data.

🔹 4.3 Support Vector Machine (SVM)

Powerful ML algorithm used for classification.

Uses hyperplanes to separate classes.

Works well on both linear and non-linear datasets.

📌 5. Model Training

Each model was trained using the train-test split:

X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(X, y, test_size=0.2, random_state=42)


Then the models were trained:

LogisticRegression()

RandomForestClassifier()

SVC()

📌 6. Evaluation Metrics

The models were evaluated using accuracy score.

from sklearn.metrics import accuracy_score


Accuracy results were calculated for all three models.

📌 7. Results & Comparison

After training and testing, accuracy scores of all three models were compared.

This comparison was visualized using a bar chart, making it easy to identify which model performs best.

Bar chart example:

Model	Accuracy
Logistic Regression	XX%
Random Forest	XX%
SVM	XX%

(Random values will be replaced by the actual output from your notebook.)

📌 8. Conclusion

From the results, we can conclude:

Logistic Regression is simple and fast for binary classification.

Random Forest handles complex data well and often performs better.

SVM provides strong performance, especially for high-dimensional data.

The best model for this project is the one with the highest accuracy score in the results section.

Overall, the project successfully demonstrates the end-to-end ML workflow:

✔ Loading Dataset
✔ Preprocessing
✔ Training Models
✔ Testing & Accuracy Comparison
✔ Visualizing Performance
✔ Final Conclusion

📌 9. Future Scope

The project can be improved by adding:

Hyperparameter tuning

More ML models like KNN, Naive Bayes

Cross-validation

Confusion matrix & classification report

Larger real-world dataset

📌 10. Libraries Used

Python

NumPy

Pandas

Matplotlib

Scikit-learn